Add external switch configuration example for reference (#117)
harvester/docs: docs/networking/best-practice-non-vlan-aware-switch.md

---
sidebar_position: 51
keywords:
  - Harvester
  - harvester
  - Rancher
  - rancher
Description: Harvester is built on Kubernetes, which uses CNI as an interface between network providers and Kubernetes pod networking. Naturally, we implement the Harvester network based on CNI. Moreover, the Harvester UI integrates the Harvester network to provide a user-friendly way to configure networks for VMs.
---

# Best Practice for Non VLAN-aware Switch

> In this best practice guide for non VLAN-aware switch, dummy switch, we will introduce Harvester VLAN network and external switch configuration for common scenario.

Author: in my previous job (network engineer), we usually said "non vlan aware" or "dummy" rather than "vlan unaware".
i'm not sure if it will confuse network team or not.

about "vlan-unaware" vs "dummy"
i'm asking my ex-colleague about this.
but we could remove "dummy" and leave only "vlan-unaware" (or non vlan aware)

> In this best practice guide for non VLAN-aware switch, dummy switch, we will introduce Harvester VLAN network and external switch configuration for common scenario.

Reviewer: I'll trust you here :) ... it's just that something "non ..." always reads weird. But if it's a terminology, please keep it like that.

As for the dummy reference, we can keep it, the phrasing would change to this:
"In this best practice guide for non VLAN-aware switch, also known as dummy switch, ..."

> In this best practice guide for non VLAN-aware switch, dummy switch, we will introduce Harvester VLAN network and external switch configuration for common scenario.

Author: > "In this best practice guide for non VLAN-aware switch, also known as dummy switch, ..."

this should be good

> In this best practice guide for non VLAN-aware switch, dummy switch, we will introduce Harvester VLAN network and external switch configuration for common scenario.

Reviewer: I edited all the comments with VLAN-unaware and changed it back to "non VLAN-aware". You can review them and commit them if it's OK

> In this best practice guide for non VLAN-aware switch, dummy switch, we will introduce Harvester VLAN network and external switch configuration for common scenario.

Author: Sure ok
thanks a lot

## Architecture

Hardware:
- 3 Harvester servers with only single port network card
- non VLAN-aware switch, dummy switch

Network Specification:

> - Management Network is same subnet as VM Network

Author: This mgmt network is different from harvester-network/#management-network
this mgmt network is the network that is same as harvester-mgmt connectes to.

The below diagram illustrates cabling in this guide.

   ![non-vlan-aware-case.png](assets/non-vlan-aware-case.png)

## External Switch Configuration

Mostly, non VLAN-aware switch cannot be configured.

## Create a VLAN Network in Harvester

A new VLAN network can be created via the **Advanced > Networks** page and clicking the **Create** button.

Specify the name and VLAN ID that you want to create for the VLAN network <small>(You can specify the same vlan ID on different namespaces of [Rancher multi-tenancy](/rancher/virtualization-management/#multi-tenancy) support)</small>.
   ![create-vlan-network.png](assets/create-network.png)

### Connect VM to the same network of Harvester management network

Non VLAN-aware switch will only send out untagged network traffic for manangement network. Inside Harvester, the default VLAN tag to receive untagged taffic is VLAN 1.

If users need VM connects to management network, users can create a VLAN Network in Harvester with VLAN ID 1 configuration.

   ![non-vlan-aware-vlan1.png](assets/non-vlan-aware-vlan1.png)

Refer to [Harvester Network](/networking/harvester-network/)

!!! note

>     In this case, creating VLAN Network with other VLAN ID will not take effect to node-to-node connectivity.

Author: ```If you create a VLAN Network with the VLAN ID different from `1`, the node-to-node connectivity will be impacted.```

if we setup a VLAN network with VLAN 2 or other.
VMs in different nodes couldn't connect to each other.

In this best practice guide for "non VLAN-aware" switch, also known as "dummy" switch, we will introduce Harvester VLAN network and external switch configuration for common scenario.

## Architecture

Hardware:
- Three Harvester servers with only one single port network card.
- One or more "non VLAN-aware" switch(es).

Network Specification:
- The host and the VM networks are in the same subnet.

Cabling:
- The Harvester servers are connected to the switch in a port from `1` to `3`.

The following diagram illustrates the cabling used for this guide:

   ![non-vlan-aware-case.png](assets/non-vlan-aware-case.png)

## External Switch Configuration

Typically, a "non VLAN-aware" switch cannot be configured.

## Create a VLAN Network in Harvester

You can create a new VLAN network in the **Advanced > Networks** page, and click the **Create** button.

Specify the name and VLAN ID that you want to create for the VLAN network <small>(You can specify the same VLAN ID in different namespaces if you have [Rancher multi-tenancy](/rancher/virtualization-management/#multi-tenancy) configured)</small>.
   ![create-vlan-network.png](assets/create-network.png)

> ### Connect a VM to the Harvester management network

Reviewer 2: What does `the Harvester management network` mean here?  Usually, in Harvester, we take the network provided by the canal as the management network.

Author: the Harvester management network is equal to the subnet of `harvester-mgmt`

Reviewer 2: No. They are not the same in the Harvester. Please refer https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.0/networking/harvester-network/#management-network.

Author: i mean
the term "mgmt network" in this docs is same as the subnet of harvester-mgmt

maybe i need to change the term to different words
@nunix do you have any suggestion for this term?

Reviewer 2: We have used `management network` to indicate the network provided by the canal. It would be confusing to use the same phrase with a different meaning. A simple suggestion is just calling it `the subnet of the Harvester hosts` or `the Harvester local network`.

Author: ok fix it with `the subnet of the Harvester hosts`

> ### Connect a VM to the Harvester management network

Author: ```suggestion
### Connect a VM to the `harvester-mgmt` network
```

Author: @yaocw2020 Will it be better to separate from "mgmt network"?

> The "non VLAN-aware" switch will only send out untagged network traffic to the management network. In Harvester, the untagged traffic is received in VLAN 1.

Author: ```suggestion
The "non VLAN-aware" switch will only send out untagged network traffic to the subnet of the Harvester hosts. In Harvester, the untagged traffic is received in VLAN 1.
```

> If you need a VM to connect to the management network, you have to create a VLAN Network in Harvester with VLAN ID 1.

Author: ```suggestion
If you need a VM to connect to the subnet of the Harvester hosts, you have to create a VLAN Network in Harvester with VLAN ID 1.
```

   ![non-vlan-aware-vlan1.png](assets/non-vlan-aware-vlan1.png)

> Please refer to [this page](/networking/harvester-network/) for additional information on Harvester Networking.

Reviewer 3: the link is broken, please use the [other pages](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/docs/main/docs/rancher/rke2-cluster.md) as a reference.

Author: i used `mkdocs serve` in local, the link works fine.
and i follow it from `harvester-network.md`

Author: https://github.com/harvester/docs/blame/main/docs/networking/harvester-network.md#L70
